# RFC: Introducing RFCs
ACP - Adrestia Change Proposal?

Samuel Evans-Powell and ...

## Status

Proposed

## Abstract

This Request for Change (RFC) attempts to define a process which empowers team members to create and sustain positive change within the team.

It allows team members to propose, debate, decide on, and schedule change for implementation.

| Column 1 | Column 2 | Column 3 |
|----------|----------|----------|
| value_a  | 1        | 47       |
| value_b  | 2        | 56       |

Table: Caption for this example table. {#tbl:example-id}

Cite table @tbl:example-id.

Cite DOI @doi:10.15363/thinklab.4

## Introduction

With a team of two, phone calls and frequent short messages are sufficient to reach shared goals and arrive at design decisions. As more people from different timezones join the team, it becomes more difficult to communicate in this manner. Design decisions are typically arrived at in small groups, then communicated to the rest of the team.

Developer meetings are a great place to informally share ideas, but lack persistence, and cannot accomodate more than one or two ideas per meeting. They are also not a good place for fair discussion, with social dynamics dictating that one or two voices dominate the discourse, and individual availability affecting representation of opinions.

The goal of this RFC is to enable /asynchronous/, /persistent/, and /fair/ communication on change for our distributed team.

The scope of RFCs extends across any decision which requires the "buy-in" of many individuals to support. We do not want to weigh the team down with heavy processes, if you see something broken, fix it, don't feel a need to submit an RFC. Submit an RFC if you see something broken in our processes, you wish to make positive change that you cannot take full responsibility for, or which affects the entire team.

The process is open for the entire world, to form both a guidebook on how we work, to define our interface with outsiders, and to allow others to have a say in our processes.

Why is consensus important? Because having everyone involved in a decision is a good way to naturally get "buy-in" for a solution. The willingness of individuals to take responsibility for their part in maintaining a decision or process is more important than the quality of the process itself. Sending files back and forth via email is a better form of collaboration than Google Docs if everyone uses email and nobody uses Dropbox.

## Proposed solution

To use lightweight documents, inspired by the RFC process found in many open-source projects.

Our RFCs are meant to be informal and accessible, not academic or formal specifications. They should be fun to read, not boring. Even if a reader doesn't understand all the technical and business aspects of an RFC, they should be able to get a general sense of it's value form reading the abstract.

It's up to the team to decide on the level of details required for each RFC. If lengthy detailed discussion of a topic is needed, it can be included, or peers giving feedback can request it.

RFCs should be loosely based on the following structure:

- Status, one of:
  - PROPOSED
  - REJECTED
  - ACCEPTED
  - SCHEDULED
  - IMPLEMENTED
- Abstract
  - A few paragraphs describing the RFC at a high level
- Introduction
  - Context
  - Problem statement
  - Goals and non-goals
- Proposed solution
  - Implementation
    - How it works
    - Pros and cons
  - Impact, for example on:
    - End users
    - Our team
    - Costs
    - Performance
    - Security
  - Quality assurance
    - Testing
    - Operational concerns
      - Deployment
      - Monitoring
- Alternatives
  - Alternative implementations, also including:
    - Implementation details
    - Pros and cons

Items in the structure above that are not applicable can be excluded. In addition to this structure, feel free to include graphics and drawings, links, refrences, and whatever else helps convey your design.

We should retro-actively document all existing processes in this manner. We can then update the wiki to point to the relevant ACP.

Need a shepherd for meta-process, self-nominate.

## Format

We use Markdown documents in a public GitHub repository to publish RFCs. Simply submit a PR to the repository as you would any other work.

To give feedback, use the GitHub PR feedback system (comments, inline comments, suggestions, etc.).

## Risks

- The RFC process does not result in organic buy-in, leading to a bunch of processes that nobody does.

## Impact

- We'll have a log of the decisions and trade-offs we've made during the project. This is a great start for new team members to read about the team and understand it's history and current situation.
- We'll have a point of reference for our processes.
- Designing together and getting feedback from team members with other perspectives will produce better designs. It will spread knowledge more efficiently, and enable us to work remotely and to respond when time permits.
- Having our processes documented in a public and discoverable place:
  - Is an advertisement to future team members.
  - Allows outsiders to have a say in our processes - this could be powerful (for example, in helping us collaboratively define our team-company interface - how the company requests work from us etc.).

## Alternatives

The following could be alternative venues on which we discuss and reach decisions:

### Instant message (Slack, Matrix, etc.)

This is a very low-friction communication choice, allowing everyone to contribute to discussion in an easy and asynchronous manner. However, it lacks:
  - True persistence: conversations are quickly lost among the deluge.
  - True asynchronous communication: the platform may be asynchronous, but because conversations are quickly lost, your timezone dictates how involved in a conversation you can be. You may entirely miss conversations that happened overnight.
  - No explicit approval mechanism: There is no explicit way to reach consensus.

### Email

Email is "lowest common denominator" for communication in the company. Everyone uses email, and as such it is a good place for discussion with those outside the company. However, email lacks:
  - Good persistence: Emails are easily lost amongst the many other emails we each receive.
  - Readability: Long email chains are difficult to read, especially involving multiple people.
  - No explicit approval mechanism: Same as instant messaging.

### Meetings

Meetings are certainly useful in some contexts, especially for complex discussions. However, they should not be our primary way of communication. Meetings require time synchronization (or co-location), are generally a bad format for fair discussion (as mentioned above), and have no fair, explicit way of reaching consensus.
